> npm create vite@latest
- provide project name
- select javascript
> cd project folder
> npm install
> npm run dev

node_modules: external packages and libraries that project relies on
public: contains public assets such as images
src: -> assets folder is similar to public folder, but files inside it are bundled to final output
src itself: main.jsx -> js + xml
App.jsx -> root component

index.html -> main entry point to program
package.json file -> contains metadata for our project


App.jsx contains the root component, that main.jsx will use, so the App function inside App.jsx must not be deleted.
but everything inside App function can be deleted (and i did).
also all imports in App.jsx deleted.
base commit.

- project setup
- project structure
- root component
- styles
- props
- prop types
- conditional rendering
- lists
- click events (events in general)
- hooks
- onChange event handler
- updater function
- updating the state of objects


components can have dedicated style sheets.
App.css was deleted. no longer needed.
Header.jsx in src is a new component, in form of a function and it must be exported.

index.css applies some very basic styling to all jsx files.
to start from scracth, all these styles inside index.css can be deleted.


root element (App.jsx) must only return one parent element.
in fact, all react components must return only one parent.
this can be workarounded, using the fragment element, which is just a empty opening and closing html tag. (<>)

if putting js code inside return statement of jsx file, curly brackets are needed.
but outside return statement, no need for them.


section 2 of the video (channel name: Bro Code)
delete everything in root component, Header and Footer and Food, App.css, all imports in App.jsx
i'm just gonna delete the root component, not the other files.


in react, class is reserved, so we can't use it regularly with html attributes.
instread use className


deleted everything inside index.css to start fresh.

index.css can access all jsx files in src folder. (but this can get very large)
so we can create dedicated style sheets for each component.
react can create unique classNames for us. (commit: unique hash for className)

moving button back to src and deleting Button folder.
we can also use inline styling (only useful for small components like isolated and minimal styling)


using props we can send data to child components
boolean values are not directly displayed in dom (using props), using ternary operator usually fixes this.

propTypes: a mechanism that ensures a passed value is of correct datatype.
using propTypes is recommended.
while passing properties, any type other than string requires curly brackets.

defaultProps: default values for props if they are not passed by parent.
according to a warning in console, use of defaultProps will be deprecated and instead must use javascript parameters.

conditional rendering: allows us to control what gets rendered in app based on certain condition (show, hide or change component).
we can use both if else and ternary operator for this.
(do not display username if user is not logged in, despite having a username)

if your event handler has argument, do not pass it in element onclick event, instead use a arrow functions.


React hook: special function that allows components to use react features without writing class components. (react v16.8)
(useState, useEffect, and more)

useState is hook function that allows for creation of stateful variables and a setter function to update its value


onChange event: triggers a function every time the value of input changes


colorPicker program: 2:13:20
if using javascript inside style attribute of html element in jsx file,
must use object inside curly brackets. example:
<div className="color-display" style={{backgroundColor: color}}>
(color is a variable)

2.23.30
upadater function: a function passed to setState (usually)
allows for safe updates based on previous state.
typically used with async programming and multiple state functions
2.30.46

instead of changing the state entirely, we will use an updater
        // it will make a reference to previous state of object and ...
        // safely update it

